As the saying goes, “A picture beats a thousand words,” modern people are realizing this statement by incorporating emojis into their text. An emoji is a small picture such as a smiley face, at the size of text margins, often used when sending messages online. Seemingly appearing out of the blue, the usage of emojis boomed in recent years, and they have become an indispensable asset for chatting online. The reasons behind this trend are actually quite obvious. First of all, emojis look cute, sending a miniature face with hearts as eyes, as in picture 4, definitely feels more intimate than typing “luv u”. Secondly, emojis give people a more vivid expression of what the sender thinks. Instead of repeatedly typing “LMAO” in response to jokes, the laughing face in picture 3 may better represent how I’m feeling. And last but not least, replying with emojis is VERY convenient. It takes much less time compared to typing, and the wide variety of little pictures you can send serves to show replacement for nearly every emotion. It is really no wonder that emojis are changing our messages all the way to the core.

Still, emojis aren’t without defects. As a diver deeply submerged in social media networks, I myself have come across quite a few issues regarding the usage of them.
To begin with, some emojis bear unclear meanings. Once a friend told me that he completely flunked a test. The message ended with a smiley face, so I thought he didn’t care that much about the result and made some cruel japes at his score. It wasn’t until the next morning did I find out he was genuinely sad and the smiley face was just a joke. The event left me traumatized and deeply regretful of the things I said. Next, some popular emojis are so often used that they seem sort of repetitive or even redundant. The “thumbs-up” and “face laughing with tears” are two examples. There have been numerous people I’ve chatted to who put these emojis at the end of every sentence, and to them it seems like the emojis bear effect no more than that of a period.

Although not out of malign intentions, it does cause a bit of discomfort when chatting with them. For the problems above, I believe the best solution is to look upon emojis only as a complement to our speech. After all, the message should be clear by text, and emojis are only the cherry on the top. With proper usage of emojis, not only can we ensure the message is delivered, but also make every text a more colorful one.